README.md, before:

# Zeal 8-bit C Compiler

A C99 compiler targeting the Zeal 8-bit OS platform, powered by a Z80 CPU.

## Project Status

This is an iterative development project. Currently implemented:

- ✅ Phase 1: Basic compiler structure
- ✅ Phase 2: Lexer/Tokenizer (complete with C99 token support)
- ✅ Phase 3: Parser (expressions, variables, assignments, function calls)
- ✅ Phase 4: Symbol table (basic implementation)
- ✅ Phase 5: Z80 code generator (expressions, statements, runtime helpers)
- 🚧 Phase 6: Stack-based variables and calling convention
- ⏳ Phase 7: Control flow (if, while, for)
- ⏳ Phase 8: Optimizations and documentation

### Working Features ✅
- Complete C99 lexer with all token types
- Recursive descent parser with operator precedence
- Binary arithmetic operators (+, -, *, /, %)
- Function definitions and calls
- Variable declarations and assignments
- Return statements with expressions
- Compound statements (blocks)
- Runtime library for mul/div/mod
- Expression evaluation with correct precedence
- Multiple functions per file

### In Progress 🚧
- Stack-based local variables (currently emit as global labels)
- Function parameters and calling convention
- Argument passing for function calls

### Planned Features ⏳
- Control flow statements (if, while, for, switch)
- Pointers and arrays
- Struct and union types
- More operators (comparison, logical, bitwise)
- Type checking and semantic analysis
- Optimizations (constant folding, dead code elimination)
- Preprocessor support

## Building

### Desktop Build (for testing)

```bash
make
```

This will compile the compiler for your desktop (macOS/Linux) using GCC.

### ZOS Build (target platform)

```bash
mkdir -p build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

This requires:
- SDCC 4.4.0
- ZOS_PATH environment variable set to Zeal 8-bit OS source
- ZVB SDK and coreutils

## Usage

### Desktop version:
```bash
./bin/cc input.c output.asm
```

### ZOS version:
```bash
cc input.c output.asm
```

The compiler generates Z80 assembly compatible with Zealasm.

## Examples

### Simple Return Value
**Input (test1.c):**
```c
int main() {
    return 42;
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
; Generated by Zeal 8-bit C Compiler
; Target: Z80

    org 0x4000

; Program code
main:
    ld a, 42
    ret
```

### Expression with Operator Precedence
**Input (test_expr.c):**
```c
int main() {
    return 2 + 3 * 4;  /* Correctly evaluates to 14 */
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
main:
    ld a, 2
    push af
    ld a, 3
    push af
    ld a, 4
    ld l, a
    pop af
; Multiplication (A * L)
    call __mul_a_l
    ld l, a
    pop af
    add a, l
    ret
```

### Multiple Functions
**Input (test2.c):**
```c
int add(int a, int b) {
    return a + b;
}

int main() {
    int x;
    int y;
    x = 5;
    y = 10;
    return add(x, y);
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
add:
    ld a, (a)
    push af
    ld a, (b)
    ld l, a
    pop af
    add a, l
    ret

main:
    ld a, 5
    ld (x), a
    ld a, 10
    ld (y), a
    call add
    ret
```

## Testing

Run individual tests:
```bash
./bin/cc tests/test1.c tests/test1.asm      # Simple return
./bin/cc tests/test_expr.c tests/test_expr.asm  # Expression precedence
./bin/cc tests/test_add.c tests/test_add.asm    # Addition
./bin/cc tests/test_mul.c tests/test_mul.asm    # Multiplication
./bin/cc tests/test2.c tests/test2.asm          # Multiple functions
```

## Architecture

- `src/main.c` - Entry point and file I/O
- `src/lexer.c` - Lexical analysis (tokenization)
- `src/parser.c` - Syntax analysis (AST generation)
- `src/symbol.c` - Symbol table and type system
- `src/codegen.c` - Z80 assembly code generation

## Current Limitations

- Parser is simplified and needs expansion
- Only basic code generation is implemented
- No optimization passes yet
- Limited error reporting

## Next Steps

We will iterate on this implementation, adding:
1. Complete recursive descent parser
2. Full semantic analysis
3. Comprehensive code generation
4. Register allocation
5. Optimization passes
6. Extended C99 feature support

## License

See LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Document test directory policy: all test output must go in tests/

README.md, after:

# Zeal 8-bit C Compiler

A C99 compiler targeting the Zeal 8-bit OS platform, powered by a Z80 CPU.

## Project Status

This is an iterative development project. Currently implemented:

- ✅ Phase 1: Basic compiler structure
- ✅ Phase 2: Lexer/Tokenizer (complete with C99 token support)
- ✅ Phase 3: Parser (expressions, variables, assignments, function calls)
- ✅ Phase 4: Symbol table (basic implementation)
- ✅ Phase 5: Z80 code generator (expressions, statements, runtime helpers)
- 🚧 Phase 6: Stack-based variables and calling convention
- ⏳ Phase 7: Control flow (if, while, for)
- ⏳ Phase 8: Optimizations and documentation

### Working Features ✅
- Complete C99 lexer with all token types
- Recursive descent parser with operator precedence
- Binary arithmetic operators (+, -, *, /, %)
- Function definitions and calls
- Variable declarations and assignments
- Return statements with expressions
- Compound statements (blocks)
- Runtime library for mul/div/mod
- Expression evaluation with correct precedence
- Multiple functions per file

### In Progress 🚧
- Stack-based local variables (currently emit as global labels)
- Function parameters and calling convention
- Argument passing for function calls

### Planned Features ⏳
- Control flow statements (if, while, for, switch)
- Pointers and arrays
- Struct and union types
- More operators (comparison, logical, bitwise)
- Type checking and semantic analysis
- Optimizations (constant folding, dead code elimination)
- Preprocessor support

## Building

### Desktop Build (for testing)

```bash
make
```

This will compile the compiler for your desktop (macOS/Linux) using GCC.

### ZOS Build (target platform)

```bash
mkdir -p build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

This requires:
- SDCC 4.4.0
- ZOS_PATH environment variable set to Zeal 8-bit OS source
- ZVB SDK and coreutils

## Usage

### Desktop version:
```bash
./bin/cc input.c output.asm
```

### ZOS version:
```bash
cc input.c output.asm
```

The compiler generates Z80 assembly compatible with Zealasm.

## Examples

### Simple Return Value
**Input (test1.c):**
```c
int main() {
    return 42;
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
; Generated by Zeal 8-bit C Compiler
; Target: Z80

    org 0x4000

; Program code
main:
    ld a, 42
    ret
```

### Expression with Operator Precedence
**Input (test_expr.c):**
```c
int main() {
    return 2 + 3 * 4;  /* Correctly evaluates to 14 */
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
main:
    ld a, 2
    push af
    ld a, 3
    push af
    ld a, 4
    ld l, a
    pop af
; Multiplication (A * L)
    call __mul_a_l
    ld l, a
    pop af
    add a, l
    ret
```

### Multiple Functions
**Input (test2.c):**
```c
int add(int a, int b) {
    return a + b;
}

int main() {
    int x;
    int y;
    x = 5;
    y = 10;
    return add(x, y);
}
```

**Generated Assembly:**
```asm
add:
    ld a, (a)
    push af
    ld a, (b)
    ld l, a
    pop af
    add a, l
    ret

main:
    ld a, 5
    ld (x), a
    ld a, 10
    ld (y), a
    call add
    ret
```

## Testing

**Important**: All test input and output files must remain in the `tests/` directory. Never write test output to `/tmp` or any location outside the project.

Run individual tests:
```bash
./bin/cc tests/test1.c tests/test1.asm      # Simple return
./bin/cc tests/test_expr.c tests/test_expr.asm  # Expression precedence
./bin/cc tests/test_add.c tests/test_add.asm    # Addition
./bin/cc tests/test_mul.c tests/test_mul.asm    # Multiplication
./bin/cc tests/test2.c tests/test2.asm          # Multiple functions
```

All test artifacts (`.asm`, `.o`, `.bin`, etc.) are stored in `tests/` for version control and review.

## Architecture

- `src/main.c` - Entry point and file I/O
- `src/lexer.c` - Lexical analysis (tokenization)
- `src/parser.c` - Syntax analysis (AST generation)
- `src/symbol.c` - Symbol table and type system
- `src/codegen.c` - Z80 assembly code generation

## Current Limitations

- Parser is simplified and needs expansion
- Only basic code generation is implemented
- No optimization passes yet
- Limited error reporting

## Next Steps

We will iterate on this implementation, adding:
1. Complete recursive descent parser
2. Full semantic analysis
3. Comprehensive code generation
4. Register allocation
5. Optimization passes
6. Extended C99 feature support

## License

See LICENSE file for details.
