SCOPE.md, before:

# C Compiler for Zeal 8-bit OS

The scope of this project is to write a C Compiler for the Zeal 8-bit OS system, powered by a Z80 CPU.  This project should also compile with GCC/Clang on macOS and Linux, and you can use conditional compilation to achieve this.  We will run tests on macOS and Linux, to verify the compilers code initially.

The project should compile using SDCC 4.4.0, and Zeal 8-bit OS (ZOS) has custom API's for working with files
and user input.  Example projects that are built for ZOS and tested, are in the examples/ folder.

The C Compiler should be able to compile C code written in the C99 standard.

The compiler should produce appropriate Z80 Assembly files that can later be assembled and linked by Zealasm (source for Zealasm in examples/Zealasm). Source reading is streaming-only (512-byte buffered) to fit target RAM limits; no full-file loads.

A starter CMakeLists.txt is already in the project root - feel free to modify this as needed, but use it as a starting point as the ZOS Toolchain has a few special needs.

## Development Guidelines

### Testing
- All test files should be in the `tests/` directory
- Test input files: `tests/*.c`
- Test output files: `tests/*.asm`, `tests/*.o`, etc.
- **NEVER write test output to /tmp or any location outside the project**
- All intermediate and final test artifacts must remain in `tests/` for version control and review
- When adding new tests, update `test.zs` (target script) so they run on Zeal hardware/emulator

Commit message:

implemented stack-based (IX) function arguments added `#ifdef VERBOSE` checks for log_verbose calls to reduce binary size updated test2.c to use `int x = 5;` to verify this works updated documentation and status

SCOPE.md, after:

# C Compiler for Zeal 8-bit OS

The scope of this project is to write a C Compiler for the Zeal 8-bit OS system, powered by a Z80 CPU.  This project should also compile with GCC/Clang on macOS and Linux, and you can use conditional compilation to achieve this.  We will run tests on macOS and Linux, to verify the compilers code initially.

The project should compile using SDCC 4.4.0, and Zeal 8-bit OS (ZOS) has custom API's for working with files
and user input.  Example projects that are built for ZOS and tested, are in the examples/ folder.

The C Compiler should be able to compile C code written in the C99 standard.

The compiler should produce appropriate Z80 Assembly files that can later be assembled and linked by Zealasm (source for Zealasm in examples/Zealasm). Source reading is streaming-only (512-byte buffered) to fit target RAM limits; no full-file loads.

A starter CMakeLists.txt is already in the project root - feel free to modify this as needed, but use it as a starting point as the ZOS Toolchain has a few special needs. Use `zde cmake` to build the ZOS target; `zde cmake --target verbose` enables the `VERBOSE` compile define for `#ifdef VERBOSE`.

## Development Guidelines

### Testing
- All test files should be in the `tests/` directory
- Test input files: `tests/*.c`
- Test output files: `tests/*.asm`, `tests/*.o`, etc.
- **NEVER write test output to /tmp or any location outside the project**
- All intermediate and final test artifacts must remain in `tests/` for version control and review
- When adding new tests, update `test.zs` (target script) so they run on Zeal hardware/emulator
